Have you ever wondered if your best would ever be good enough?
Now because of the pressure from the world around us and our own imperfection,
many of us are just
too hard on ourselves.
Maybe even demanding perfection of ourselves.
One sister explained her feelings this way. She says, no matter how much I love Jehovah or how much effort I put forth to serve him,
I always feel that it is not good enough.
Maybe we can relate to how she feels at times.
Unreasonable expectations can zap us of our joy,
strangle our joy, and sometimes the joy of those around us.
But aren't we glad that Jehovah's different?
Though he is perfect, he's not a perfectionist.
It's interesting that there's so many reasons that Jehovah has to be joyful,
and one of those is because he's so reasonable.
So the question is how does he do it?
How does Jehovah maintain this balance and find joy in his work,
and also in the work that others do?
To answer those questions, we're going to focus in on one of Jehovah's most beautiful words.
Planet Earth.
Now, when Jehovah created the Earth, or was creating the Earth, it was so beautiful and so unique
that the angels broke out in applause during its formation.
And then at some point, Jehovah expressed the words found at Genesis chapter 1.
Open your Bibles there with me, please, Genesis chapter 1.
And we'll read the first sentence of verse 31.
Genesis 1 and verse 31.
It says, after that, God saw everything He had made.
And look, it was very good.
Now, this expression very good.
It's the first time that it's used in the creation account.
What does it mean?
Well, the inside book under the article Perfection has a very nice explanation,
and to sum it all up, it basically means that the Earth was perfect.
Now, does that mean that the Earth was completely finished yet?
No.
We know that the Earth was beautiful, but it was still a large and mostly
uncultivated wilderness.
Jehovah said to Adam and Eve that they've got to subdue the Earth so that they could extend
the boundaries of the Garden of Eden to the whole planet.
So then the question is, how could it be said that the Earth was perfect
if Jehovah's purpose for the Earth was not yet complete?
Well, it's interesting what the same inside book article goes on to say about all of Jehovah's
creation.
It says perfection of any other person or thing other than Jehovah himself, of course,
is relative, not absolute.
So the Earth was perfect in a relative sense.
It met Jehovah's perfect standards at that moment even though there was still much to do.
Now, here's our first lesson.
The first thing we can learn from Jehovah here, he is so reasonable.
He doesn't have to wait for every detail of something that he's doing to be finished
before he can find joy in what he's doing.
He can be content with his work even when his work is still a work in progress.
Now, what do you think Jehovah wants for you and me?
Well, he wants us to enjoy our work the same way that he enjoys his.
But we might say, well, that's fine, but Jehovah's work is perfect.
My work is not, but doesn't the principle still apply?
I think about it.
Maybe we've come a long way in improving on a quality like patience.
And we've done so much and we're so different from the person that we were before.
And then all of a sudden, the situation comes up that puts a real test,
that puts a test to our patients.
And we realize how much we still have to work on.
Or maybe you're sitting here as some of you are,
as Gilead students, soon to be graduates.
You've been studying a lot for five months and you're wondering,
how in the world am I going to ever be able to apply all the things that I learned
that Gilead, I just don't measure up.
Don't persecute yourself by focusing on what has not been done yet.
The reality is you have done so much already and you've done it because you love Jehovah.
He loves you for that. We love you for that.
So what's the point?
The point is imitate Jehovah's reasonableness
by learning to find joy in what has been done,
to find joy in the work that is still a work in progress.
Now, Jehovah is also able to find joy in the work that others do.
And we can see that also in the creation of Planet Earth.
We remember that in Genesis 1 verse 26, Jehovah introduces his son and master worker Jesus.
So Jesus was there when Jehovah said, very good.
Jehovah was saying, I appreciate your contribution to the making of the earth,
even though there's still much to do.
Wow, can you imagine how Jesus would have felt hearing Jehovah say very good?
Let's imagine by reading one verse and we'll link these two verses, Genesis 1, 31,
to Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 30.
Remember that Proverbs chapter 8, much of it is talking about Jesus' prehuman existence
when he's helping Jehovah make all things. Now, imagine the day that Jehovah says very good
in verse 30. Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 30. It says, then I, Jesus,
was beside him, Jehovah, as a master worker. I was the one he was especially fond of day by day.
I rejoiced before him all the time. So what's Jesus saying? He felt appreciated by Jehovah.
In fact, it made him so happy. He rejoiced, it says, this word rejoiced in the original Hebrew,
includes the idea of laughing, celebrating, and having a good time. So Jesus absolutely
loved working with Jehovah because he felt appreciated so much so that he continued to give Jehovah his
best, even under the most difficult of circumstances. So again, what's the lesson we can learn from Jehovah?
Well, he's reasonable in what he expects from others. He doesn't just get hung up on all the things
that haven't been done yet. He focuses primarily on what has been done well, and he expresses
appreciation for that. Have you ever delegated an assignment to someone, maybe at Bethel?
And though much has been done, there's still a lot to do, or bringing it to the congregation.
There's that brother or sister that's the single parent that has just emptied themselves to try
to help their child to come and to love Jehovah. And there's such a good example,
but their child just doesn't want it. He doesn't want the truth. You see, here's our chance to imitate
Jehovah to tell them how good they have done to focus on that. You see, when we do that,
it's going to help them to continue giving their best for Jehovah, and especially it's going to
help them to get through those moments when they feel like they've not done enough.
So what have we learned? Well, we've learned that imperfection tends to make us perfectionists.
And that's demanding, unreasonable, cold, right? It's difficult. We all have that inclination.
But true perfection that comes from Jehovah is different. It's loving. It's considerate,
and it's reasonable. So when we feel the pressure that comes from unreasonable expectations,
don't snap. Don't give in to those negative feelings. Fight them by refocusing on Jehovah's perfect
example of being able to find joy in a work that's still a work in progress. When we do that,
we're going to be an oasis of comfort, both for ourselves and for those around us.
And then Jehovah will look down and he'll see. He'll see our efforts trying to imitate him,
we are also works in progress. And that's going to touch his heart. And he's going to say of us with
a warm smile of approval. Very good.